README.md, before:

**<h1>Kedi's restaurant</h1>**
![mockup for desktop home page](./assets/images/project-design/stories/mockup.png)

A restaurant with all the Ugandan food you miss!
Visit our [website](https://kedi1991.github.io/project01/) and check out our amazing dishes at good rates.


<h2>1. Purpose of the project</h2>

Project aims to sell Ugandan dishes to the people of Alicante, Spain while spreading the culture of the Ugandan people. With this, there will be an indirect boost in tourism by those who would like to visit Uganda and have an experience.

<h2>2. User stories</h2>


<h2>3. Features</h2>

The site is organised with graphical content to aid new users in navigating the site with ease.
The home page contains a visible header with navigation (A) to a contact form as well as the same home page incase the user is on another page. Below the Header, we have an image navigation bar (B) with links to all 4 categories of foods (Breakfast, lunch and dinner - having the same offers, and Events- parties or other ocassions) as shown in the images below.

![image of header, header navigation and central image navigation](./assets/images/project-design/stories/story-a.png)

On making a selection from the food categories in image navigation, the suer will be redirected to the detailed list of all listed foods. The details will include the name (D), image and description (C), and price (E) as shown below.

![image of food details](./assets/images/project-design/stories/story-b.png)

In case of any need of contacting the restaurant, there are contact details and social media links listed on the footer (G) section and a link to the contact form (F) on the header as well.

![footer image](./assets/images/project-design/stories/story-c.png)


![footer image](./assets/images/project-design/stories/story-d.png)

<h2>4. Future features</h2>

- Create shopping cart
- Enable sign-up and Login
- Integrate payment processor

<h2>5. Typography and color scheme</h2>

Inspiration of the color scheme came from the [uber](https://www.uber.com/es/en/ride/) website. 

![color selection image](./assets/images/nav/color.png)

The site also uses [google fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) for the text content

Additionally, [font-awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) is used for social media icons in the footer

<h2>6. Wireframes</h2>

Wireframes were designed using Balsamiq wireframes Version: 4.5.5.

Sample screenshots on various screen sizes are shown below

**DESKTOP PAGES**

a) Home page

![wireframe for desktop home page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-dt-home.png)

b) Food detail page

![wireframe for desktop detail page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-dt-details.png)

c) Contact Page

![wireframe for desktop contact page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-dt-contact.png)

**TABLET PAGES**

a) Home page

![wireframe for tablet home page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-tab-home.png)

b) Food detail 

![wireframe for tablet detail page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-tab-details.png)

c) Contact Page

![wireframe for tablet contact page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-tab-contact.png)

**MOBILE PAGES**

a) Home page

![wireframe for mobile home page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-mob-home.png)

b) Food detail page

![wireframe for mobile detail page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-mob-details.png)

c) Contact Page

![wireframe for mobile contact page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-mob-contact.png)

<h2>7. Technology</h2>

- The site is built on HTML and CSS.

<h2>8. Testing</h2>

All html elements where tested for intended functionality, all links where tested and the screen responsiveness was verified on mobile, tablet, and desktp screen resolutions.

<h3>8.1 code validation</h3>

The overall quality of the html, and css code was checked using the [html validator](https://validator.w3.org/) and [jigsaw](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator/) online tools respectively.

<h3>8.2 test cases (user story based with screenshots)</h3>

<h3> 8.3 fixed bugs</h3>

Sample errors found on html code were fixed as shown below

![html errors on validator](./assets/images/project-design/tests/html-error.png)

![html errors corrected](./assets/images/project-design/tests/html-pass.png)
<br>
Errors found on the css stylesheet were fixed as shown below

![html errors on validator](./assets/images/project-design/tests/css-errors.png)

![html errors on validator](./assets/images/project-design/tests/css-pass.png)
<br>

<h3>8.4 supported screens and browsers</h3>
 
The site was tested on the browsers listed below

| S/N | Browser         | Version        | Platform       | Screen sizes (mobile, tablet, desktop) |
|-----|-----------------|----------------|----------------|----------------------------------------|
| 1   | Mozilla firefox | 105.0.1        | Windows 10 x64 | Passed all                             |
| 2   | Google Chrome   | 105.0.5195.127 | Windows 10 x64 | Passed all                             |
| 3   | Microsoft Edge  | 105.0.1343.50  | Windows 10 x64 | Passed all                             |
| 4   | Google Chrome   | 105.0.5195.136 | Android 10     | Passed mobile and desktop view         |

<br>

**Sample test result images with screen resolutions and one physical mobile test on Nokia 9.0**

![responsiveness test PC](./assets/images/project-design/tests/screen-test-pc.png)

![responsiveness test Tablet](./assets/images/project-design/tests/screen-test-tab.png)

![responsiveness test Mobile](./assets/images/project-design/tests/screen-test-phone.png)

![responsiveness test Mobile physical](./assets/images/project-design/tests/screen-test-nokia.png)

<h2>9. Deployment</h2>

<h3>9.1 Via gitpod</h3>

On the git terminal, run the following commands:

```python
git add .
git commit -m "commit message"
git push
```

   <h3>9.2 Via github pages</h3>

<h2>10. Version history</h2>

ver1: release date 17/09/2022

ver2: release date 25/09/2022
- fixed media queries for mobile and tablet display sizes
- edited the contact form 

<h2>11. Software used</h2>
- google lens
- paint 3d
- photos
- balsamick
- google developer tools
- gitpod
- github
- firefox and google chrome
- windows snipping tool
- https://websitemockupgenerator.com/
- https://www.img2go.com/
- [Markdown tables generator](https://www.tablesgenerator.com/markdown_tables)


<h2>12. credits</h2>

**Contributors:**

**Images and recipe from;**
- pinterest
- Top Ten Uganda
- Nnyonyi.com
- newvision.co.ug
- nilepost.co.ug
- Africa food Network
- alamy.com
- tourguideuganda.com
- https://sarasglobalcooking.blogspot.com/
- https://www.alamy.com/
- daily monitor uganda
- https://4foodssakeeat.wordpress.com/
- wikipedia
- https://www.tasteatlas.com/
- chillies.co.ug

Commit message:

add deployment images and User stories README text

README.md, after:

**<h1>Kedi's restaurant</h1>**
![mockup for desktop home page](./assets/images/project-design/stories/mockup.png)

A restaurant with all the Ugandan food you miss!
Visit our [website](https://kedi1991.github.io/project01/) and check out our amazing dishes at good rates.

<h2>1. Purpose of the project</h2>

Project aims to sell Ugandan dishes to the people of Alicante, Spain while spreading the culture of the Ugandan people. With this, there will be an indirect boost in tourism by those who would like to visit Uganda and have an experience.

<h2>2. User stories</h2>

This site was designed to enable the users;
- make a choice of foods from the restaurant.
- access all pages easily even with poor internet connectivity.
- easily find contact information and social media pages of Kedi's restaurant on facebook, twitter, instagram and youtube.
- see the design of the restaurant on the homepage/ welcome screen.
- navigate through all kinds of foods that have been categorized with simplicity using the main image navigation bar.
- find their way to any page using constantly available links to all pages wherever they are.
- view all features of the website by carefully selecting colors, pictures, fonts and styles that will not obstract the view of the users while they navigate the site.
- report any disatisfaction with service to the owners of the restaurant using an easily accessible form in the header
- make requests through a contct form and schedule one-on-one engagements.

<h2>3. Features</h2>

The site is organised with graphical content to aid new users in navigating the site with ease.
The home page contains a visible header with navigation (A) to a contact form as well as the same home page incase the user is on another page. Below the Header, we have an image navigation bar (B) with links to all 4 categories of foods (Breakfast, lunch and dinner - having the same offers, and Events- parties or other ocassions) as shown in the images below.

![image of header, header navigation and central image navigation](./assets/images/project-design/stories/story-a.png)

On making a selection from the food categories in image navigation, the suer will be redirected to the detailed list of all listed foods. The details will include the name (D), image and description (C), and price (E) as shown below.

![image of food details](./assets/images/project-design/stories/story-b.png)

In case of any need of contacting the restaurant, there are contact details and social media links listed on the footer (G) section and a link to the contact form (F) on the header as well.

![footer image](./assets/images/project-design/stories/story-c.png)


![footer image](./assets/images/project-design/stories/story-d.png)

<h2>4. Future features</h2>

- Create shopping cart
- Enable sign-up and Login
- Integrate payment processor

<h2>5. Typography and color scheme</h2>

Inspiration of the color scheme came from the [uber](https://www.uber.com/es/en/ride/) website. 

![color selection image](./assets/images/nav/color.png)

The site also uses [google fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) for the text content

Additionally, [font-awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) is used for social media icons in the footer

<h2>6. Wireframes</h2>

Wireframes were designed using Balsamiq wireframes Version: 4.5.5.

Sample screenshots on various screen sizes are shown below

**DESKTOP PAGES**

a) Home page

![wireframe for desktop home page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-dt-home.png)

b) Food detail page

![wireframe for desktop detail page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-dt-details.png)

c) Contact Page

![wireframe for desktop contact page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-dt-contact.png)

**TABLET PAGES**

a) Home page

![wireframe for tablet home page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-tab-home.png)

b) Food detail 

![wireframe for tablet detail page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-tab-details.png)

c) Contact Page

![wireframe for tablet contact page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-tab-contact.png)

**MOBILE PAGES**

a) Home page

![wireframe for mobile home page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-mob-home.png)

b) Food detail page

![wireframe for mobile detail page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-mob-details.png)

c) Contact Page

![wireframe for mobile contact page](./assets/images/project-design/wireframes/wf-mob-contact.png)

<h2>7. Technology</h2>

- The site is built on HTML and CSS.

<h2>8. Testing</h2>

All html elements where tested for intended functionality, all links where tested and the screen responsiveness was verified on mobile, tablet, and desktp screen resolutions.

<h3>8.1 code validation</h3>

The overall quality of the html, and css code was checked using the [html validator](https://validator.w3.org/) and [jigsaw](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator/) online tools respectively.

<h3>8.2 test cases (user story based with screenshots)</h3>

<h3> 8.3 fixed bugs</h3>

Sample errors found on html code were fixed as shown below

![html errors on validator](./assets/images/project-design/tests/html-error.png)

![html errors corrected](./assets/images/project-design/tests/html-pass.png)
<br>
Errors found on the css stylesheet were fixed as shown below

![html errors on validator](./assets/images/project-design/tests/css-errors.png)

![html errors on validator](./assets/images/project-design/tests/css-pass.png)
<br>

<h3>8.4 supported screens and browsers</h3>
 
The site was tested on the browsers listed below

| S/N | Browser         | Version        | Platform       | Screen sizes (mobile, tablet, desktop) |
|-----|-----------------|----------------|----------------|----------------------------------------|
| 1   | Mozilla firefox | 105.0.1        | Windows 10 x64 | Passed all                             |
| 2   | Google Chrome   | 105.0.5195.127 | Windows 10 x64 | Passed all                             |
| 3   | Microsoft Edge  | 105.0.1343.50  | Windows 10 x64 | Passed all                             |
| 4   | Google Chrome   | 105.0.5195.136 | Android 10     | Passed mobile and desktop view         |

<br>

**Sample test result images with screen resolutions and one physical mobile test on Nokia 9.0**

![responsiveness test PC](./assets/images/project-design/tests/screen-test-pc.png)

![responsiveness test Tablet](./assets/images/project-design/tests/screen-test-tab.png)

![responsiveness test Mobile](./assets/images/project-design/tests/screen-test-phone.png)

![responsiveness test Mobile physical](./assets/images/project-design/tests/screen-test-nokia.png)

**Page loading performace was tested using Lighthouse. Results shown below**

![performance test](./assets/images/project-design/tests/lighthouse-test.png)

<h2>9. Deployment</h2>

<h3>9.1 Via gitpod</h3>

On the git terminal, run the following commands:

<h3>9.2 Via github pages</h3>

1. While on the project root folder, go to **settings** .
2. Navigate to the **pages** tab on the left navigation panel.
3. Go to **Build and deployment** > **Branch**. Select **main** then click **save**.
4. At the top just below the **GitHub Pages** heading, you will be notified of successful deployment as shown in the image. This may take about 60 seconds to reflect. Incase It takes longer, try refreshing the page.

![git pages deploy settings](./assets/images/project-design/stories/deploy-page.png)

<h2>10. Version history</h2>

ver1: release date 17/09/2022

ver2: release date 25/09/2022
- fixed media queries for mobile and tablet display sizes
- edited the contact form 

<h2>11. Software used</h2>

- google lens
- paint 3d
- photos
- balsamick
- google developer tools
- gitpod
- github
- firefox and google chrome
- windows snipping tool
- https://websitemockupgenerator.com/
- https://www.img2go.com/
- [Markdown tables generator](https://www.tablesgenerator.com/markdown_tables)


<h2>12. credits</h2>

**Contributors:**

**Images and recipe from;**
- pinterest
- Top Ten Uganda
- Nnyonyi.com
- newvision.co.ug
- nilepost.co.ug
- Africa food Network
- alamy.com
- tourguideuganda.com
- https://sarasglobalcooking.blogspot.com/
- https://www.alamy.com/
- daily monitor uganda
- https://4foodssakeeat.wordpress.com/
- wikipedia
- https://www.tasteatlas.com/
- chillies.co.ug
